README.md, before:

# Wordle

This Java application runs a word game called Wordle.
The aim is to guess a five-letter word in six attempts. Each box can hold one letter,
and so you guess at the correct word by typing in a five-letter word and hitting the Enter key.
To guide you towards the target word, each time you guess, certain letters will be highlighted. 
A letter coloured in yellow means that the letter is in the target word, but in the wrong 
position. A letter coloured in green indicates that it is a correct letter and also in the correct
position. Letters may be used twice or thrice in a word. If you fail 
to guess the target word in six tries, the answer will be revealed to you. 

The target audience of this application is any user who is looking for brain stimulating
entertainment, or simply those who desire a little more practice with their english vocabulary
and reasoning skills. As an avid word/puzzle game player, I find interest in exploring the technical
aspects that make such games possible.

# User Stories


- As a user, I want to be able to select a game-play difficulty level that controls how many characters the target
  word is.
- As a user, I want to be able to input a guess which is added to my list of previous guesses.
- As a user, I want to be given the option to receive a hint about the target word.
- As a user, I want to be given the option the statistics of the game upon guessing the correct word.
- As a user, when the game is over, regardless if I won or not, I want to be given the option to play again.
- As a user, I want to be given the option to save, or save and quit from my current game.
- As a user, I want to be given the option to load my previous
  game state from file and resume my game.

# Instructions for Grader

- You can generate the first required action related to adding a guess to a list of guesses by typing in your guess into the text field and clicking the 'Make Guess' button.
- You can generate the second required action related to removing all guesses from the list of guesses by clicking the 'Restart Game' button at any time.
- My visual component is located on the right, with a cat who changes expressions based on whether you win or lose the game.
- You can save the state of my application by clicking the 'Save Game' button at any time.
- You can reload the state of my application by clicking the 'Load Game' button at any time.

# Phase 4: Task 2
Mon Apr 10 15:51:18 PDT 2023 \
Added guess PIZZA to guess log.

Mon Apr 10 15:51:20 PDT 2023 \
Added guess SLICE to guess log.

Mon Apr 10 15:51:21 PDT 2023 \
Removed all guesses from guess log.

Mon Apr 10 15:51:23 PDT 2023 \
Added guess APPLE to guess log.

Mon Apr 10 15:51:27 PDT 2023 \
Added guess RIVER to guess log.

Mon Apr 10 15:51:28 PDT 2023 \
Removed all guesses from guess log.

Mon Apr 10 15:51:33 PDT 2023 \
Added guess APPLE to guess log.

# Phase 4: Task 3
When examining the design presented in my UML class diagram for my application,
I notice that there is some cross-over between association arrows as both the classes
WordleApp and WordleAppGraphical are associated with the same classes. This design appears
to be redundant, and could be improved by creating interfaces and abstractions to reduce coupling
and improve flexibility/maintainability of the code. This would allow both the WordleApp and 
WordleAppGraphical classes to extend one class and inherit its fields and methods rather than 
being associated to several of the same classes. Furthermore, since my project involves a collection of elements (guesses) and the goal is to operate on the collection
by printing each element while iterating over it, the design could be refactored to implement the
iterator pattern. In this project, the Log class would be the iterable, providing a way to access each
of the guesses sequentially without exposing all of its underlying implementation.

As well, I believe the cohesion of my current code can also be significantly improved, as a select few
of my classes are quite large and cover a significant range of methods. This could result in confusion
over the purpose of certain functions. To increase cohesion and reduce coupling throughout the code,
I would consider breaking up my code into more classes, such that the purpose of methods within each class
are more closely related and that relation between each of the separated classes is more distantly related.
In particular, given more time, I would construct a class solely for one character of one guess,
allowing me to analyze the colour of a singular letter before introducing it to the string of letters
in a guess, and finally the list of all guesses in the guess log.




# Attributions
- String builder technique to add separators to a string: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58928521/java-add-separator-to-a-string
- JsonReader and JsonWriter classes (attribution also found in more detail in specification of referenced methods): https://github.students.cs.ubc.ca/CPSC210/JsonSerializationDemo

Commit message:

Phase 4: Task 3 - improved design refactoring discussion

README.md, after:

# Wordle

This Java application runs a word game called Wordle.
The aim is to guess a five-letter word in six attempts. Each box can hold one letter,
and so you guess at the correct word by typing in a five-letter word and hitting the Enter key.
To guide you towards the target word, each time you guess, certain letters will be highlighted. 
A letter coloured in yellow means that the letter is in the target word, but in the wrong 
position. A letter coloured in green indicates that it is a correct letter and also in the correct
position. Letters may be used twice or thrice in a word. If you fail 
to guess the target word in six tries, the answer will be revealed to you. 

The target audience of this application is any user who is looking for brain stimulating
entertainment, or simply those who desire a little more practice with their english vocabulary
and reasoning skills. As an avid word/puzzle game player, I find interest in exploring the technical
aspects that make such games possible.

# User Stories


- As a user, I want to be able to select a game-play difficulty level that controls how many characters the target
  word is.
- As a user, I want to be able to input a guess which is added to my list of previous guesses.
- As a user, I want to be given the option to receive a hint about the target word.
- As a user, I want to be given the option the statistics of the game upon guessing the correct word.
- As a user, when the game is over, regardless if I won or not, I want to be given the option to play again.
- As a user, I want to be given the option to save, or save and quit from my current game.
- As a user, I want to be given the option to load my previous
  game state from file and resume my game.

# Instructions for Grader

- You can generate the first required action related to adding a guess to a list of guesses by typing in your guess into the text field and clicking the 'Make Guess' button.
- You can generate the second required action related to removing all guesses from the list of guesses by clicking the 'Restart Game' button at any time.
- My visual component is located on the right, with a cat who changes expressions based on whether you win or lose the game.
- You can save the state of my application by clicking the 'Save Game' button at any time.
- You can reload the state of my application by clicking the 'Load Game' button at any time.

# Phase 4: Task 2
Mon Apr 10 15:51:18 PDT 2023 \
Added guess PIZZA to guess log.

Mon Apr 10 15:51:20 PDT 2023 \
Added guess SLICE to guess log.

Mon Apr 10 15:51:21 PDT 2023 \
Removed all guesses from guess log.

Mon Apr 10 15:51:23 PDT 2023 \
Added guess APPLE to guess log.

Mon Apr 10 15:51:27 PDT 2023 \
Added guess RIVER to guess log.

Mon Apr 10 15:51:28 PDT 2023 \
Removed all guesses from guess log.

Mon Apr 10 15:51:33 PDT 2023 \
Added guess APPLE to guess log.

# Phase 4: Task 3
When examining the design presented in my UML class diagram for my application,
I notice that there is some cross-over between association arrows as both the UI classes
WordleApp and WordleAppGraphical are associated with the same classes. This design appears
to be redundant, and could be improved by creating interfaces and abstractions to reduce coupling
and improve flexibility/maintainability of the code. This would allow both the WordleApp and 
WordleAppGraphical classes to extend one class and inherit its fields and methods rather than 
being associated to several of the same classes. This type of refactoring could also make it easier
to maintain two separate UIs simultaneously. Furthermore, since my project involves a collection of elements (guesses) and the goal is to operate on the collection
by printing each element while iterating over it, the design could be refactored to implement the
iterator pattern. In this project, the Log class would be the iterable, providing a way to access each
of the guesses sequentially without exposing all of its underlying implementation.

As well, I believe the cohesion of my current code can also be significantly improved, as a select few
of my classes are quite large and cover a significant range of methods. This could result in confusion
over the purpose of certain functions. To increase cohesion and reduce coupling throughout the code,
I would consider breaking up my code into more classes, such that the purpose of methods within each class
are more closely related and that relation between each of the separated classes is more distantly related.
In particular, given more time, I would construct a class solely for one character of one guess,
allowing me to analyze the colour of a singular letter before introducing it to the string of letters
in a guess, and finally the list of all guesses in the guess log.




# Attributions
- String builder technique to add separators to a string: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58928521/java-add-separator-to-a-string
- JsonReader and JsonWriter classes (attribution also found in more detail in specification of referenced methods): https://github.students.cs.ubc.ca/CPSC210/JsonSerializationDemo
